# EDA-captrone-project

playstore app analysis INTRODUCTION Application distribution platform, for example, Play Store gets overwhelmed with millions of new applications being launched on the platform regularly. Lots of designers and developers work on it to make an app successful on the Play Store. In this highly competitive world, it is an immense challenge for a developer to know whether they are focusing on the right path to make their app successful on the platform. To launch themselves successfully and create an identity for themselves in this oversaturated market, they need to ensure that majority of the essential factors are incorporated while designing and developing an app that would play an important role in customer's decision-making process. However, the lack of a clear understanding of the inner working and dynamic of popular app markets impacts both the developers and users.

OBJECTIVE

To understand consumer behaviour and demand, how they are reacts to different categories of genre of google play store apps Find the most popular and trending apps in recent times Find how small changes or update impacts on app performance Analyse the reviews, rating sentiments of people towards various apps in play store Above all, help developers or clients to recognize the gap, make the app better and meet customer expectationsimage

PROBLEM STATEMENTS Installs per Category Pricing vs Category Number of Reviews per Category What are the top 20 apps present in the google play store as per their Genres? Which are the Genres that are getting installed the most in top 20 Genres? What are the count of applications in each category differentiated by their type? How many apps were installed according to its type? Distribution of sentiment subjectivity Overall percentage of review sentiment What is the most dominant category image

What is Exploratory Data Analysis? Exploratory data analysis (EDA) is used by data scientists to analyze and investigate data sets for patterns, and anomalies (outliers), and form hypotheses based on our understanding of the dataset and summarize their main characteristics, often employing data visualization methods. It is an important step in any Data Analysis or Data Science project. It helps determine how best to manipulate data sources to get the answers you need. EDA involves generating summary statistics for numerical data in the dataset and creating various graphical representations to understand the data better and make it more attractive and appealing.

The following are the various steps involved in the EDA process: Problem Statement - We shall brainstorm and understand the given data set. We shall study the attributes present in it and try to do a philosophical analysis about their meaning and importance for this problem. Hypothesis - Upon studying the attributes present in the data base, we shall develop some basic hypothesis on which we can work and play with the data to look for the varied results which we can get out of it. Univariate Analysis - It is the simplest form of analyzing the data. In this we would initially pick up a single attribute and study it in and out. It doesn't deal with any sort of co-relation and it's major purpose is to describe. It takes data, summarizes that data and finds patterns in the data. Bivariate Analysis - This analysis is related to cause and the relationship between the two attributes. We will try to understand the dependency of attributes on each other. Multivariate Analysis - This is done when more than two variables have to be analyzed simultaneously. Data Cleaning - We shall clean the dataset and handle the missing data, outliers and categorical variables. Testing Hypothesis - We shall check if our data meets the assumptions required by most of the multivariate techniques.

DATA EXPLORATION, CLEANING AND INSIGHTS There are two types of data sets : play store data and user data play store data: App – name of the application Category- category of the application Rating – rating given to the application Reviews – no of reviews given to the application Size – size of the application Install – no of downloads of the application Type – free or paid Price – price of the application if it is paid Content rating – it is age appropriate or not Genres – type of genres the application belongs to Last updated – when the last time the application is updated Current ver – current ver of the application Android ver – minimum android ver required to run the application

User reviews dataimage

App- an app name Translated reviews – reviews being given by consumers Sentiment – sentiment given to app by users Sentiment polarity – polarity of sentiments measures how negative or positive the context is. Sentiment subjectivity –the subjectivity of sentiment is how likely that sentiment is to be based on data or factual information, versus personal opinion or public notions

Data Cleaning Data cleaning not just means removing the incorrect data or erroneous data. Many times we get the data which has all kinds of values some of them will cause problem during the analysis of the data and make our predictions incorrect. So we have to make sure our data has no erroneous values data cleaning step: Removing unwanted values Handling missing values Handling structural errors Filtering unwanted outliers Replacing missing values

EDA INSIGHTS AND CONCLUSION: In this project of analyzing play store applications, we have worked on several parameters which would help AlmaBetter to do well in launching their apps on the play store. • In the initial phase, we focused more on the problem statements and data cleaning, in order to ensure that we give them the best results out of our analysis. • AlmaBetter needs to focus more on : • Developing apps related to the least categories as they are not explored much. Like events and beauty. • Most of the apps are Free, so focusing on free app is more important. • Focusing more on content available for Everyone will increase the chances of getting the highest installs. • They need to focus on updating their apps regularly, so that it will attract more users. • They need to keep in mind that the sentiments of the user keep varying as they keep using the app, so they should focus more on users needs and features.
